>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING,
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
JUDY WOODRUFF. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WHAT
WE'VE LEARNED SO FAR ABOUT
YESTERDAY'S MASS SHOOTING IN
CALIFORNIA THAT LeF( 14 DEAD.
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD THIS
>> Ifill: ALSO AHEAD
THIS THURSDAY:
THURSDAY: WE TALK
WITH THE SECRETARY OF
WE TALK WITH THE SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE ABOUT HIS HISTORIC ORDER
TO OPEN UP COMBAT ROLES TO
TO OPEN UP COMBAT
ROLES TO WOMEN.
WOMEN. >> Woodruff:
AND, OUR SPECIAL
>> Woodruff: AND, OUR SPECIAL
SERIES, NIGERIA PAIN AND PROMISE
SERIES, NIGERIA PAIN
AND PROMISE CONTINUES.
CONTINUES. TONIGHT,
HOW GAY PEOPLE THERE
TONIGHT, HOW GAY PEOPLE
THERE FACE HORRIFIC ABUSE.
FACE HORRIFIC ABUSE.
>> I GET CALLS.
>> I GET CALLS. I
GET TEXT MESSAGES.
I GET TEXT MESSAGES.
I GET EMAILS.
I GET EMAILS. THREATENING
MY LIFE, THAT, IF
THREATENING MY LIFE, THAT, IF
YOU DON'T STOP WHAT YOU'RE
DOING, AS AN ACTIVIST, AS A GAY
ACTIVIST, THEN, WE'LL KILL YOU.
>> Ifill: ALL THAT AND MORE
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THERE'S MUCH MORE
TODAY ON THE ATTACKE$] AND THEIR
WEAPONS IN THE SAN BERNARDINO
WEAPONS IN THE SAN
BERNARDINO SHOOTINGS.
SHOOTINGS. BUT POLICE
AND FEDERAL AGENTS
BUT POLICE AND FEDERAL AGENTS
ARE STILL SEARCHING FOR WHAT
SPARKED THE ATTACK THAT KILLED
14 PEOPLE, WOUNDED 21 AND
CULMINATED IN A FATAL
CONFRONTATION.
CONFRONTATION. HARI
SREENIVASAN REPORTS FROM
HARI SREENIVASAN REPORTS
FROM SAN BERNARDINO.
SAN BERNARDINO. >>
Sreenivasan: THIS MORNING, A
>> Sreenivasan: THIS MORNING, A
BULLET-RIDDLED S.U.V. STILL SAT
IN A SAN BERNARDINO STREET,
STARK EVIDENCE OF WEDNESDAY'S
STARK EVIDENCE OF
WEDNESDAY'S VIOLENCE.
VIOLENCE. THE FWO
SUSPECTS, SYED FAROOK
THE FWO SUSPECTS, SYED FAROOK
AND HIS WIFE, TASHFEEN MALIK,
DIED THERE IN A GUN BATTLE WITH
DIED THERE IN A GUN BATTLE
WITH POLICE, AFTER A CHASE.
POLICE, AFTER A CHASE. HOURS
EARLIER, THE PAIR OPENED
HOURS EARLIER, THE PAIR OPENED
FIRE AT A SOCIAL SERVICES CENTER
DURING A HOLIDAY LUNCHEON.
POLICE SWARMED IN TO TRACK THE
HUSBAND-AND-WIFE TEAM, ENDING IN
THE FINAL SHOOTOUT A FEW MILES
THE FINAL SHOOTOUT
A FEW MILES AWAY.
AWAY. POLICE CHIEF
JARROD BURGUAN SAYS
POLICE CHIEF JARROD BURGUAN SAYS
THE COUPLE HAD AN ARSENAL IN THE
S.U.V., INCLUDING TWO RIFLES AND
TWO HANDGUNS -- ALL LEGALLY
PURCHASED -- AND BULLETS THAT
COULD PUNCH THROUGH POLICE
COULD PUNCH THROUGH POLICE >>
SUSPECTS ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE
>> SUSPECTS ARE BELIEVED TO HAVE
FIRED ABOUT 76 RIF ROULENDS AT
THE OFFICERS AT THE TERMINATION
THE OFFICERS AT THE
TERMINATION OF THE PURSUIT.
OF THE PURSUIT. 76 IS OUR
NUMBER WE HAVE RIGHT
76 IS OUR NUMBER WE HAVE RIGHT
NOW, HOWEVER ON THEM ON THEIR
PERSON AND IN VEHICLE THEY HAD
OVER 1,400 .223 CALIBER ROUNDS
THAT WERE AVAILABLE TO THEM AND
HAD OVER 200 .9 MM ROUNDS ON
HAD OVER 200 .9 MM ROUNDS
ON THEIR PERSONS AS WELL.
THEIR PERSONS AS WELL. >>
Sreenivasan: IN ADDITION,
>> Sreenivasan: IN ADDITION,
INVESTIGATORS FOUND THREE PIPE
BOMBS AT THE SIAL OCSERVICES
COMPLEX, ATTACHED TO A REMOTE
COMPLEX, ATTACHED TO A
REMOTE CONTROLLED CAR THAT
CONTROLLED CAR THAT
MALFUNCTIONED.
MALFUNCTIONED. F.B.I. AND
POLICE ALSO SEARCHED
F.B.I. AND POLICE ALSO SEARCHED
A HOME IN NEARBY REDLANDS.
WHAT THEY FOUND INSIDE WAS
WHAT THEY FOUND INSIDE
WAS ANOTHER ARSENAL.
ANOTHER ARSENAL. THE
SEARCH THAT TOOK PLACE
THE SEARCH THAT TOOK PLACE
REVEALED THAT THERE WERE 12 PIPE
BOMBS IN THAT HOUSE OR IN GARAGE
BOMBS IN THAT HOUSE OR
IN GARAGE TO THAT HOUSE.
TO THAT HOUSE. THERE
WERE ALSO HUNDREDS OF
THERE WERE ALSO HUNDREDS OF
TOOLS, MANY OF WHICH COULD BE
USED TO CONSTRUCT I.E.D.'S OR
USED TO CONSTRUCT I.E.D.'S
OR PIPE BOMBS.
PIPE BOMBS. IN
ADDITION TO THAT, THEY HAD
IN ADDITION TO THAT, THEY HAD
OTHER MATERIAL TO PRODUCE
ADDITIONAL BOMBS AS WELL.
ADDITIONAL BOMBS AS WELL. >>
Sreenivasan: AS THE SEARCH
>> Sreenivasan: AS THE SEARCH
PROCEEDED, AUTHORITIES BEGAN TO
PROCEEDED, AUTHORITIES BEGAN
TO PIECE TOGETHER MORE ON THE
PIECE TOGETHER MORE
ON THE SHOOTERS.
SHOOTERS. SAYED FAROOK
WAS 28 YEARS OLD,
SAYED FAROOK WAS 28 YEARS OLD,
BORN IN THE U.S. AND WORKED AS A
BORN IN THE U.S. AND WORKED AS
A COUNTY RESTAURANT INSPECTOR.
COUNTY RESTAURANT INSPECTOR. HIS
WIFE, TASHMEEN MALIK, WAS IN
HIS WIFE, TASHMEEN MALIK, WAS IN
THE COUNTRY ON A VISA AND HAD A
THE COUNTRY ON A VISA AND
HAD A PAKISTANI PASSPORT.
PAKISTANI PASSPORT. THE
COUPLE ALSO HAD A SIX-MONTH
THE COUPLE ALSO HAD A
SIX-MONTH OLD CHILD.
OLD CHILD. LAST NIGHT,
FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN
LAST NIGHT, FAROOK'S BROTHER-IN
LAW SAID HE COULDN'T FATHOM WHY
LAW SAID HE COULDN'T
FATHOM WHY THEY DID THIS.
THEY DID THIS. >> I
HAVE NO IDEA, I HAVE NO
>> I HAVE NO IDEA, I HAVE NO
IDEA WHY HE WOULD DO THAT, WHY
WOULD HE DO SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
I HAVE ABSOLUTELY NO IDEA.
I AM IN SHOCK MYSELF.
I AM IN SHOCK MYSELF. >>
Sreenivas: LOanRI NOBLE LIVES
>> Sreenivas: LOanRI NOBLE
LIVES NEARBY AND WAS BUYING A
NEARBY AND WAS BUYING A
CHRISTMAS TREE TODAY.
FOR HER, THE ATTACK WAS
FOR HER, THE ATTACK
WAS PERSONAL.
PERSONAL. >> I HAVE
A DISABLED DAUGHTER
>> I HAVE A DISABLED DAUGHTER
AND SHE GETS SERVICES FROM
THERE, AND KNOW QUITE A FEW
TOUGH. YOU DON'T
EXPECT IT TO HAPPEN
YOU DON'T EXPECT IT TO
HAPPEN HERE AND IT JUST DID.
HERE AND IT JUST DID. >>
Sreenivasan: NEARBY AT THE
ORIGINAL MOMMY HELMS BAKERY,
THEY WERE ON LOCKDOWN YESTERDAY.
DOES IT MAKE YOU FEEL LESS SAFE?
DOES IT MAKE YOU FEEL LESS
SAFE? >> YES, IT DOES.
>> YES, IT DOES. BECAUSE
IT IS SO CLOSE TO HOME.
BECAUSE IT IS SO CLOSE TO HOME.
IT DOES MAKE ME FEEL UNSAFE.
YOU HAVE TO HAVE YOUR GUARD UP
AT ALL TIMES, YOU JUST NEVER
AT ALL TIMES, YOU
JUST NEVER KNOW.
KNOW. >>
Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE,
>> Sreenivasan: MEANWHILE,
PRESIDENT OBAMA APPEALED AGAIN,
FROM THE OVAL OFFICE, FOR THE
COUNTRY TO FIND A WAY TO CURB
COUNTRY TO FIND A WAY
TO CURB GUN VIOLENCE.
GUN VIOLENCE. >> SO MANY
AMERICANS SOMETIMES
>> SO MANY AMERICANS SOMETIMES
FEEL AS IF THERE'S NOTHING WE
FEEL AS IF THERE'S NOTHING
WE CAN DO ABOUT IT.
CAN DO ABOUT IT. WE'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO SEARCH
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SEARCH
OURSELVES AS A SOCIETY TO MAKE
SURE WE CAN TAKE BASIC STEPS
THAT WOULD MAKE IT HARDER NOT
IMPOSSIBLE BUT HARDER FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO GET ACCESS TO
INDIVIDUALS TO GET
ACCESS TO WEAPONS.
WEAPONS. >>
Sreenivasan: THIS IS STILL
>> Sreenivasan: THIS IS STILL
A COMMUNITY IN ITS EARLY
STAGES OF GRIEVING.
OF GRIEVING. JUST TODAY,
THE CORONER'S OFFICE
JUST TODAY, THE CORONER'S OFFICE
STARTED MAKING PUBLIC THE NAMES
OF THE 14 PEOPLE MURDERED
OF THE 14 PEOPLE
MURDERED YESTERDAY.
YESTERDAY. THAT MEANS
THIS TOWN WILL FEEL
THAT MEANS THIS TOWN WILL FEEL
THE RIPPLE EFFECTS OF THEIR LOSS
THE RIPPLE EFFECTS OF THEIR
LOSS THAT MUCH MORE ACUTELY.
THAT MUCH MORE ACUTELY. THERE
ARE VIGILS PLANNED TONIGHT
THERE ARE VIGILS PLANNED TONIGHT
TO TRY TO REMEMBER THOSE
AFFECTED BY THIS, INCLUDING ONE
AT THE SAN BERNADINO MOSQUE, THE
AT THE SAN BERNADINO MOSQUE,
THE LARGEST ONE HERE.
LARGEST ONE HERE. GWEN.
GWEN. >> Ifill:
THANKS, HARI.
>> Ifill: THANKS, HARI.
>> Ifill: THE SAN BERNARDINO
SHOOTINGS PROMPTED NEW DEBATE IN
CONGRESS TODAY ON HOW TO STOP
CONGRESS TODAY ON HOW
TO STOP GUN VIOLENCE.
GUN VIOLENCE. SENATE
DEMOCRATS OFFERED
SENATE DEMOCRATS OFFERED
PROPOSALS TO EXPAND BACKGROUND
CHECKS AND MAKE IT HARDER FOR
PEOPLE ON TERROR WATCH LISTS TO
PEOPLE ON TERROR WATCH
LISTS TO BUY WEAPONS.
BUY WEAPONS. REPUBLICANS
OPPOSED THOSE
REPUBLICANS OPPOSED THOSE
AMENDMENTS, AND CALLED INSTEAD,
FOR OVERHAULING THE COUNTRY'S
MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM.
MENTAL HEALTH SYSTEM. >>
Woodruff: THE U.S. MILITARY
>> Woodruff: THE U.S. MILITARY
WILL OPEN ALL OF ITS FRONT-LINE
COMBAT JOBS TO WOMEN, WITHOUT
COMBAT JOBS TO WOMEN,
WITHOUT EXCEPTION.
EXCEPTION. DEFENSE
SECRETARY ASH CARTER
DEFENSE SECRETARY ASH CARTER
ANNOUNCED THE CHANGE TODAY,
REJECTING THE MARINE CORPS'
REQUEST FOR EXEMPTIONS.
REQUEST FOR EXEMPTIONS. AT
A PENTAGON BRIEFING, CARTER
AT A PENTAGON BRIEFING, CARTER
SAID THE MILITARY NEEDS THE
BROADEST POOL OF TALENT FOR THE
BROADEST POOL OF TALENT FOR
THE TOUGHEST ASSIGNMENTS.
TOUGHEST ASSIGNMENTS. >> OUR
FORCE OF THE FUTURE MUST
>> OUR FORCE OF THE FUTURE MUST
CONTINUE TO BENEFIT FROM THE
BEST PEOPLE AMERICA HAS TO
BEST PEOPLE AMERICA
HAS TO OFFER.
OFFER. TO SUCCEED
IN OUR MISSION OF
TO SUCCEED IN OUR MISSION OF
NATIONAL DEFENSE WE CANNOT
AFFORD TO CUT OURSELFS OFF FROM
HALF THE CONTRY'S TALENTS AND
HALF THE CONTRY'S
TALENTS AND SKILLS.
SKILLS. WE HAVE TO
TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE
WE HAVE TO TAKE FULL ADVANTAGE
OF EVERY INDIVIDUAL WHO CAN MEET
OF EVERY INDIVIDUAL WHO CAN
MEET OUR STANDARDS.
OUR STANDARDS. >>
Woodruff: WE'LL HEAR GWEN'S
>> Woodruff: WE'LL HEAR GWEN'S
INTERVIEW WITH SECRETARY CARTER
A LITTLE LATER IN THEROGRAM.
>> Ifill: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY SAYS THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP CAN BE DEFEATED
WITHIN MONTHS, IF THERE'S A
CEASE-FIRE IN THE SYRIAN CIVIL
CEASE-FIRE IN THE
SYRIAN CIVIL WAR.
WAR. KERRY MADE THE
PREDICTION AT A
KERRY MADE THE PREDICTION AT A
EUROPEAN SECURITY CONFERENCE
EUROPEAN SECURITY
CONFERENCE TODAY.
TODAY. MEANWHILE,
BRITAIN LAUNCHED ITS
MEANWHILE, BRITAIN LAUNCHED ITS
FIRST AIR-STRIKES OVERNIGHT,
AGAINST ISIS TARGETS IN SYRIA,
SHORTLY AFTER PARLIAMENT
APPROVED THE MOVE.
APPROVED THE MOVE. THE
BRITISH ARE USING CYPRUS AS
THE BRITISH ARE USING
CYPRUS AS A BASE.
A BASE. >> Woodruff:
RUSSIAN AND TURKISH
>> Woodruff: RUSSIAN AND TURKISH
OFFICIALS HELD THEIR FIRST HIGH-
LEVEL MEETING TODAY SINCE TURKEY
SHOT DOWN A RUSSIAN MILITARY
JET, NINE DAYS AGO.
AFTERWARD, RUSSIA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER SAID, "WE HEARD NOTHING
MINISTER SAID, "WE
HEARD NOTHING NEW."
NEW." AT THE SAME
TIME, PRESIDENT
AT THE SAME TIME, PRESIDENT
VLADIMIR PUTIN AGAIN ACCUSED
TURKEY OF BUYING OIL FROM
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES IN SYRIA.
THE TURKS CALLED THAT CLAIM
"SOVIET-STYLE PROPAGANDA".
"SOVIET-STYLE PROPAGANDA". >>
Ifill: THE CORRUPTION CRISIS
>> Ifill: THE CORRUPTION CRISIS
ENGUING LFINTERNATIONAL SOCCER
HAS WIDENED AGAIN IN THE(U/S.
HAS WIDENED AGAIN IN
THE(U/S. AND EUROPE.
AND EUROPE. SWISS
AUTHORITIES ARRESTED TWO
SWISS AUTHORITIES ARRESTED TWO
VICE PRESIDENTS FROM SOCCER'S
GOVERNING BODY FIFA IN PRE-DAWN
RAIDS TODAY AT A LUXURY HOTEL IN
RAIDS TODAY AT A LUXURY
HOTEL IN ZURICH.
ZURICH. AND IN WASHINGTON,
U.S. ATTORNEY
AND IN WASHINGTON, U.S. ATTORNEY
GENERAL LORETTA LYNCH ANNOUNCED
CHARGES AGAINST 16 MORE
OFFICIALS OF FIFA'S EXECUTIVE
OFFICIALS OF FIFA'S
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
COMMITTEE. >> THE
BETRAYAL OF TRUST THAT IS
>> THE BETRAYAL OF TRUST THAT
IS SET FORTH HERE IS TRULY
SET FORTH HERE IS
TRULY OUTRAGEOUS.
OUTRAGEOUS. AND THE
SCALE OF CORRUPTION
AND THE SCALE OF CORRUPTION
ALLEGED HEREIN IS
UNCONSCIONABLE.
UNCONSCIONABLE. AND
THE MESSAGE FROM THIS
AND THE MESSAGE FROM THIS
ANNOUNCEMENT SHOULD BE CLEAR: TO
EVERY CULPABLE INDIVIDUAL WHO
REMAINS IN THE SHADOWS, HOPING
REMAINS IN THE SHADOWS,
HOPING TO EVADE THIS ONGOING
TO EVADE THIS ONGOING
INVESTIGATION, YOU WILL NOT WAIT
US OUT, AND YOU WILL NOT ESCAPE
US OUT, AND YOU WILL
NOT ESCAPE OUR FOCUS.
OUR FOCUS. >> Ifill:
INVESTIGATORS ALLEGE
>> Ifill: INVESTIGATORS ALLEGE
THAT FIFA LEADERS HAVE ACCEPTED
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN BRIBES TO
INFLUENCE THE SELECTION OF SITES
INFLUENCE THE SELECTION OF
SITES FOR WORLD CUP MATCHES.
FOR WORLD CUP MATCHES. >>
Woodruff: THE DOUBLE-AMPUTEE
>> Woodruff: THE DOUBLE-AMPUTEE
OLYMPIC RUNNER OSCAR PISTORIUS
IS LIKELY HEADED BACK TO PRISON
IS LIKELY HEADED BACK TO
PRISON IN SOUTH AFRICA.
IN SOUTH AFRICA. AN
APPEALS COURT CONVICTED HIM
AN APPEALS COURT CONVICTED
HIM TODAY OF MURDERING HIS
TODAY OF MURDERING HIS
GIRLFRIEND IN 2013.
GIRLFRIEND IN 2013. A
LOWER COURT RULED IT WAS
A LOWER COURT RULED IT WAS
MANSLAUGHTER-- A LESSER CHARGE--
BUT PROSECUTORS APPEALED.
BUT PROSECUTORS APPEALED. >>
Ifill: ANOTHER VERDICT BACK
>> Ifill: ANOTHER VERDICT
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY.
IN THIS COUNTRY. A FEDERAL
JURY IN WEST VIRGINIA
A FEDERAL JURY IN WEST VIRGINIA
HAS CONVICTED A FORMER COAL
HAS CONVICTED A FORMER
COAL EXECUTIVE OF A SINGLE
EXECUTIVE OF A SINGLE
MISDEMEANOR, IN A 2010 MINE
EXPLOSION THAT KILLED 29 MEN.
EXPLOSION THAT KILLED 29 MEN. AT
THE TIME, DON BLANKENSHIP RAN
AT THE TIME, DON BLANKENSHIP RAN
MASSEY ENERGY, THE MINE'S OWNER.
HE WAS FOUND GUILTY TODAY OF
CONSPIRING TO VIOLATE SAFETY
STANDARDS, BUT ACQUITTED OF MOR
STANDARDS, BUT ACQUITTED
OF MOR SERIOUS CHARGES.
SERIOUS CHARGES. HE
PLANS TO APPEAL.
HE PLANS TO APPEAL. CONGRESS
TOOK ACTION TODAY ON
CONGRESS TOOK ACTION TODAY
ON HIGHWAYS AND HEALTH CARE.
HIGHWAYS AND HEALTH CARE. THE
HOUSE APPROVED A FIVE-YEAR
THE HOUSE APPROVED A FIVE-YEAR
BILL FUNDING HIGHWAYS AND MASS
BILL FUNDING HIGHWAYS AND
MASS TRANSIT, TO THE TUNE OF
TRANSIT, TO THE TUNE
OF $305 BILLION.
$305 BILLION. IT ALSO
INCLUDES A SEPARATE
IT ALSO INCLUDES A SEPARATE
PROVISION TO REVIVE THE U.S.
PROVISION TO REVIVE THE
U.S. EXPORT-IMPORT BANK.
EXPORT-IMPORT BANK. IN THE
SENATE, REPUBLICANS MOVED
IN THE SENATE, REPUBLICANS MOVED
A BILL TO REPEAL PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
OBAMA'S AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT. HE'S PROMISED A VETO.
HE'S PROMISED A VETO. NEWLY
ELECTED HOUSE SPEAKER PAUL
NEWLY ELECTED HOUSE SPEAKER PAUL
RYAN SERVED NOTICE TODAY THAT
REPUBLICANS WILL OFFER WHAT HE
CALLS "A COMPLETE ALTERNATIVE
TO THE LEFT'S AGENDA".
TO THE LEFT'S AGENDA". RYAN
SPOKE TODAY AT THE LIBRARY
RYAN SPOKE TODAY AT THE LIBRARY
OF CONGRESS, AND CALLED FOR
SIMPLIFYING THE TAX CODE AND
ROLLING BACK OBAMACARE, AMONG
ROLLING BACK OBAMACARE,
AMONG OTHER THINGS.
OTHER THINGS. >> WE
WANT ALL AMERICANS WHEN
>> WE WANT ALL AMERICANS WHEN
THEY LOOK AT WASHINGTON TO SEE
SPENDING GOING DOWN, TAXES GOING
SPENDING GOING DOWN, TAXES
GOING DOWN, DEBT GOING DOWN.
DOWN, DEBT GOING DOWN. WE
WANT TO SEE PROGRESS AND WE
WE WANT TO SEE PROGRESS AND
WE WANT TO HAVE PRIDE.
WANT TO HAVE PRIDE. WE WANT
PEOPLE TO BELIEVE IN OUR
WE WANT PEOPLE TO BELIEVE
IN OUR FUTURE AGAIN.
FUTURE AGAIN. WE WANT A
COUNTRY WHERE NO ONE
WE WANT A COUNTRY WHERE NO ONE
IS STUCK, WHERE NO ONE SETTLES,
WHERE EVERYONE CAN RISE.
WHERE EVERYONE CAN RISE. >>
Ifill: RYAN ALSO SAID IT'S
>> Ifill: RYAN ALSO SAID IT'S
TIME FOR MAJOR REVISIONS IN
MAJOR SOCIAL PROGRAMS-- AKIN TO
WELFARE REFORM IN THE 1990'S.
>> Woodruff: THE SECRET SERVICE
IS IN THE SPOTLIGHT AGAIN.
HOUA SE OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE
REPORT TODAY CALLS IT AN "AGENC
REPORT TODAY CALLS IT
AN "AGENC IN CRISIS."
IN CRISIS." THE
YEAR-LONG INVESTIGATION
THE YEAR-LONG INVESTIGATION
FOUND: 143 SECURITY BREACHES, OR
ATTEMPTED BREACHES AT FACILITIES
GUARDED BY THE SECRET SERVICE IN
GUARDED BY THE SECRET
SERVICE IN THE LAST DECADE.
THE LAST DECADE. IT ALSO
SAID THE SECRET SERVICE
IT ALSO SAID THE SECRET SERVICE
IS UNDERSTAFFED AND POORLY LED,
AND AGENTS AND OFFICERS ARE
AND AGENTS AND OFFICERS
ARE OVERWORKED.
OVERWORKED. DEMOCRATS
ON THE COMMITTEE SAID
DEMOCRATS ON THE COMMITTEE SAID
DEEP BUDGET CUTS ARE PARTLY TO
DEEP BUDGET CUTS ARE
PARTLY TO BLAME.
BLAME. >> Ifill: IN
ECONOMIC NEWS, THE
>> Ifill: IN ECONOMIC NEWS, THE
FEDERAL RESERVE IS ON TRACK FOR
ITS FIRST INTEREST RATE HIKE IN
ITS FIRST INTEREST RATE HIKE
IN NEARLY A DECADE LATER THIS
NEARLY A DECADE
LATER THIS MONTH.
MONTH. THAT WORD
TODAY FROM FED CHAIR
THAT WORD TODAY FROM FED
CHAIR JANET YELLEN.
JANET YELLEN. SHE TOLD
CONGRESS THAT ECONOMIC
SHE TOLD CONGRESS THAT ECONOMIC
CONDITIONS SEEM RIGHT FOR A
HIKE, AND THE FED'S OPEN MARKET
COMMITTEE MUST ACT ACCORDINGLY.
>> WERE THE FOMC TO DELAY THE
START OF POLICY NORMALIZATION
FOR TOO LONG, WE WOULD LIKELY
END UP HAVING TO TIGHTEN POLICY
END UP HAVING TO TIGHTEN
POLICY RELATIVELY ABRUPTLY.
RELATIVELY ABRUPTLY. SUCH
AN ABRUPT TIGHTENING WOULD
SUCH AN ABRUPT TIGHTENING WOULD
RISK DISRUPTING FINANCIAL
MARKETS, AND PERHAPS EvEe
INADVERTENTLY PUSH THE ECONOMY
INADVERTENTLY PUSH THE
ECONOMY INTO A RECESSION.
INTO A RECESSION. >>
Ifill: MEANWHILE, THE
>> Ifill: MEANWHILE, THE
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK TODAY CUT
A KEY INTEREST RATE AND EXTENDED
A KEY INTEREST RATE AND
EXTENDED ITS STIMULUS PROGRAM.
ITS STIMULUS PROGRAM. >>
Woodruff: THAT DISAPPOINTMENT
>> Woodruff: THAT DISAPPOINTMENT
WITH EUROPE'S RATE CUT SENT WALL
WITH EUROPE'S RATE CUT SENT
WALL STREET INTO A SELL-OFF.
STREET INTO A SELL-OFF. THE
DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN 250 POINTS TO
LOST MORE THAN 250 POINTS
TO CLOSE BELOW 17,480.
CLOSE BELOW 17,480. THE
NASDAQ FELL 85 POINTS,
THE NASDAQ FELL 85 POINTS, AND
THE S&P 500 DROPPED NEARLY
AND THE S&P 500
DROPPED NEARLY 30.
30. >> Ifill: STILL
TO COME ON THE
>> Ifill: STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
NEWSHOUR: WHEN
RADICALIZATION FLIES BELOW
WHEN RADICALIZATION
FLIES BELOW THE RADAR.
THE RADAR. THE SECRETARY
OF DEFENSE ON
THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE ON
TODAY'S HISTORIC ANNOUNCEMENT TO
DRAMATICALLY EXPAND THE NUMBER
DRAMATICALLY EXPAND THE
NUMBER OF WOMEN IN COMBAT.
OF WOMEN IN COMBAT. THE
ABUSE OF GAYS IN NIGERIA,
THE ABUSE OF GAYS IN
NIGERIA, AND MUCH MORE.
>> Woodruff: NOW, LET'S RETURN
TO SOME OF THE QUESTIONS OUT
THERE ABOUT THE MURDERS IN SAN
THERE ABOUT THE MURDERS
IN SAN BERNARDINO.
BERNARDINO. SEVERAL
NEWS REPORTS SUGGESTED
SEVERAL NEWS REPORTS SUGGESTED
THE FBI IS TREATING THE SHOOTING
THE FBI IS TREATING THE
SHOOTING AS A TERRORIST CASE.
AS A TERRORIST CASE. THERE'S
ALSO BEEN SPECULATION AS
THERE'S ALSO BEEN SPECULATION AS
TO WHETHER THE SUSPECTS COULD
HAVE BEEN RADICALIZED.
HAVE BEEN RADICALIZED. AGAIN,
THERE ARE MANY DETAILS
AGAIN, THERE ARE MANY DETAILS
STILL UNCLEAR, INCLUDING MOTIVE.
BUT LET'S DISCUSS WHAT WE KNOW
WITH TWO WHO ARE FAMILIAR WITH
WITH TWO WHO ARE FAMILIAR
WITH THESE ISSUES.
THESE ISSUES. MICHAEL
LEITER IS THE FORMER
MICHAEL LEITER IS THE FORMER
DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL
COUNTERTERRORISM CENTER.
AND, SEAMUS HUGHES, DEPUTY
DIRECTOR OF THE PROGRAM ON
EXTREMISM AT GEORGE WASHINGTON
EXTREMISM AT GEORGE
WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY.
UNIVERSITY. MICHAEL
LEITER, SEAMUS HUGHES,
MICHAEL LEITER, SEAMUS
HUGHES, WELCOME.
WELCOME. MICHAEL, LET
ME START WITH YOU.
MICHAEL, LET ME START WITH YOU.
AS WE SAID WE DON'T KNOW THE
AS WE SAID WE DON'T
KNOW THE MOTIVE.
MOTIVE. WE DON'T KNOW
IF THERE WAS SOME
WE DON'T KNOW IF THERE WAS SOME
WORKPLACE FRICTION INVOLVED IN
WORKPLACE FRICTION
INVOLVED IN THIS.
THIS. BUT WE DO KNOW
THEY HAD A LOT OF
BUT WE DO KNOW THEY HAD A LOT OF
AMMUNITION IN THEIR HOME, IN THE
AMMUNITION IN THEIR
HOME, IN THE VEHICLE.
VEHICLE. WE KNOW
THEY HAD TRAVELED
WE KNOW THEY HAD TRAVELED
OVERSEAS, BUT THEY WERE NOT ON
OVERSEAS, BUT THEY WERE
NOT ON ANY WATCH LIST.
ANY WATCH LIST. WHY NOT?
WHY NOT? WHAT WOULD
HAVE PUT THEM ON A
WHAT WOULD HAVE PUT
THEM ON A WATCH LIST?
WATCH LIST? >> USUALLY
TO BE ON A WATCH LIST
>> USUALLY TO BE ON A WATCH
LIST THERE HAS TO BE REASONABLE
THERE HAS TO BE REASONABLE
SUSPICION OF PEOPLE BEING
INVOLVED IN TERRORIST ACTIVITY.
IN THIS CASE YOU HAVE
INDIVIDUALINDIVIDUALS WHO WERE -
THAT IS OBVIOUSLY NOT ENOUGH.
YOU HAD PEOPLE WHO TRAVEL TO THE
MIDDLE EAST, PAKISTAN AND SAUDI
ARABIA-- THAT IS NOT ENOUGH.
AND IF YOU HAVE DETAILS ABOUTT
AND IT'S PARTICULARLY PROBATIVE,
THAT COULD GET SOMEONE ON A
WATCH LIST, BUT I DON'T THINK WE
YET HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION TON
YET HAVE ENOUGH INFORMATION
TON WHETHER OR NOT THEY WERE
WHETHER OR NOT THEY WERE
INAPPROPRIATELY OR APPROPRIATELY
NOT ON WATCH LISTS.
NOT ON WATCH LISTS. >>
Woodruff: SEAMUS HUGHES,
>> Woodruff: SEAMUS HUGHES,
YOU STUDY PEOPLE WHO ARE-- I
GUESS THE CLASSIFICATION IS
EXTREMISTS, PEOPLE WHO ARE
EXTREMISTS, PEOPLE
WHO ARE RADICALIZED.
RADICALIZED. WHAT
HAPPENS IN THAT
WHAT HAPPENS IN THAT
CLASSIFICATION?
CLASSIFICATION? WHAT--
IT CHANGES SOMEONE FROM
WHAT-- IT CHANGES SOMEONE FROM
BEING NOT RADICALIZED TO BEING
BEING NOT RADICALIZED
TO BEING RADICALIZED?
RADICALIZED? >>
IT'S A VERY HIGHLY
>> IT'S A VERY HIGHLY
INDIVIDUALIZED PROCESS AND EACH
INDIVIDUALIZED PROCESS AND
EACH PLRSON IS DIFFERENT.
PLRSON IS DIFFERENT. AND
IT CAN RANGE FROM A FEW
AND IT CAN RANGE FROM A
FEW WEEKS TO A FEW MONTHS.
WEEKS TO A FEW MONTHS. AND
WE'VE SEENN IEACH ONE OF
AND WE'VE SEENN IEACH ONE OF
THE CASES THAT FAMILY MEMBERS
SEE SOMETHING CONCERNING EVERY
SEE SOMETHING
CONCERNING EVERY TIME.
TIME. THEY SEE A TRAIN
WRECK HAPPENING
THEY SEE A TRAIN WRECK HAPPENING
IN SLOW MOTION BUT THEY DON'T
KNOW WHAT THEY'RE SEEING.
KNOW WHAT THEY'RE SEEING. THEY
DON'T KNOW WHO TO TALK TO
THEY DON'T KNOW WHO TO TALK
TO IN THESE SITUATIONS.
IN THESE SITUATIONS. >>
Woodruff: WE HEARD, I THINK
>> Woodruff: WE HEARD, I THINK
IT WAS THE BROTHER-IN-LAW, OF
THE MAN, THE SUSPECT HERE,
SAYING THE FAMILY IN ESSENCE WAS
SAYING THE FAMILY IN
ESSENCE WAS SHOCKED.
SHOCKED. HE HAD NO
IDEA THIS WAS GOING
HE HAD NO IDEA
THIS WAS GOING ON.
ON. >> AND THAT'S
USUALLY A GENERAL
>> AND THAT'S USUALLY
A GENERAL REACTION.
REACTION. I WOULD BE
SURPRISE SURPRISEDR
I WOULD BE SURPRISE SURPRISEDR
FRIENDS AND FAMILY DIDN'T SEE
SOMETHING, ALSO, THOUGH.
SOMETHING, ALSO, THOUGH. I
WOULD THINK SOMEONE SAW
I WOULD THINK SOMEONE SAW
SOMETHING AT SOME POINT AND
SAID, THIS, SEEMS A LITTLE BIT
OFF," AND JUST DIDN'T KNOW WHAT
OFF," AND JUST DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT TO DO AFTER THAT.
TO DO AFTER THAT. >>
Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER,
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER,
HOW DO AUTHORITIES GO ABOUT
PIECING INFORMATION TOGETHER?
IF HE-- THEY WERE IN TOUCH WITH
PEOPLE WHO WERE BEING WATCHED
FTHEY WERE BUYING WEAPONS, YOU
KNOW, WHEN DOES THAT BECOME
KNOW, WHEN DOES THAT
BECOME CRITICAL MASS?
CRITICAL MASS? >>
WELL A LOT OF?X HAT
>> WELL A LOT OF?X HAT
INFORMATION AUTHORITIES MCy NOT
INFORMATION AUTHORITIES MCy
NOT ACTUALLY KNOW AT THE TIME.
ACTUALLY KNOW AT THE TIME.
THEY MAY SEE CALLS GOING FROM
SOMEONE WHO IS ON A WATCH LIST
SOMEONE WHO IS ON A WATCH
LIST TO SOMEONE ELSE.
TO SOMEONE ELSE. THEY
REALLY DON'T HAVE ANY
THEY REALLY DON'T HAVE ANY
INDICATION AT THAT POINT TO LOOK
INDICATION AT THAT POINT TO
LOOK AT THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS.
AT THESE TWO INDIVIDUALS. WHAT
THEY'LL DO NOW, OF COURSE,
WHAT THEY'LL DO NOW, OF COURSE,
IS THAT FORENSIC ANALYSIS.
AND WHAT IS SO HARD FOR
AUTHORITIES IS AFTER THE FACT,
AUTHORITIES IS AFTER THE
FACT, THE MONDAY MORNING
THE MONDAY MORNING
UARTQERBACKING, YOU CAN LOOK AT
ALL THOSE DOTS OF INFORMATION
AND SAY, "AH, OF COURSE.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED."
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENED." BUT
BEFORE THIS IS DISPARATE
BUT BEFORE THIS IS DISPARATE
PIECES OF INFORMATION.
PIECES OF INFORMATION. THE
FACT THAT SOMEONE GOES AN
THE FACT THAT SOMEONE GOES AN
BUYS A WEAPON IN THE UNITED
STATES, THERE'S NOTHING ILLEGAL.
BUT IT WILL NOW BE, I THINK, THE
EXPLOITATION OF THE ELECTRONIC
MEDIA, THEIR FOOTPRINTS ONLINE,
THEIR PHONE CONVERSATIONS-- ALL
THEIR PHONE CONVERSATIONS--
ALL OF THOSE PIECES WILL GIVE
OF THOSE PIECES WILL GIVE
AUTHORITIES THE BEST INDICATION
OF WHETHER OR NOT THERE WAS AN
ELEMENT OF RADICALIZATION GOING
ELEMENT OF RADICALIZATION
GOING ON HERE.
ON HERE. >> Woodruff:
SEAMUS HUGHES, AS
>> Woodruff: SEAMUS HUGHES,
AS YOU HAVE LOOKED AT THIS
YOU HAVE LOOKED AT THIS
POPULATION, I MEAN, HOW MANY
PEOPLE ARE-- ARE YOU STUDYING
OUT THERE WHO MAY HAVE THE
CHARACTERI:GR(:HJt SOMEONE WHO
WOULD BE PREPARED TO PULL OFF
WOULD BE PREPARED TO PULL
OFF SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> IT'S AN ONGOING
INVESTIGATION.
INVESTIGATION. WE'RE
STILL FIGURING OUT THE
WE'RE STILL FIGURING OUT THE
EXACT MOAT AND I HAVE IT MAY BE
A MIX BETWEEN WORKPLACE VIOLENCE
AND TERRORISM, BUT IN TERMS OF
ISIS RECRUITS WE LOOKEDT CASES
OF PEOPLE IN THE LEGAL SYSTEM
AND THE AVERAGE AGE WAS 26,
AND THE AVERAGE AGE WAS
26, ONE-THIRD WERE 21.
ONE-THIRD WERE 21. THE VAST
MAJORITY WERE MALE BUT
THE VAST MAJORITY WERE MALE BUT
WE SAW A NUMBER OF FEMALES IN
WE SAW A NUMBER OF
FEMALES IN THE STUDY.
THE STUDY. WE SEE THE
DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES.
WE SEE THE DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHAT I
A COUPLE. WE UNDERSTAND
THEY WERE MARRIED.
WE UNDERSTAND THEY WERE
MARRIED. THEY HAD A YOUNG BABY.
THEY HAD A YOUNG BABY.
THEY HAD BEEN MARRIED JUST
THEY HAD BEEN MARRIED
JUST RECENTLY.
RECENTLY. THEY'RE BOTH
IN THEIR MID-20s.
THEY'RE BOTH IN THEIR MID-20s.
MY QUESTION IS DOES THIS FIT THE
MY QUESTION IS DOES
THIS FIT THE PROFILE?
PROFILE? >> I MEAN,
THAT'S THE EXACT
>> I MEAN, THAT'S
THE EXACT QUESTION.
QUESTION. THERE'S NOT
A TYPICAL PROFILE
THERE'S NOT A TYPICAL PROFILE
WHEN WE LOOK AT THESE CASES.
WE'VE SEEN OLD AND YOUNG, RICH
AND POOR, YOU COULD BE A-- 40%
OF THEM ARE CONVERTS BUT THE
GENERAL POPULATION IS 23.
GENERAL POPULATION IS 23. IT
RUNS THE GAMUT ON THESE TYPE
IT RUNS THE GAMUT ON
THESE TYPE OF THINGS.
OF THINGS. IN TERMS
OF THE ROLE OF WOMENN
IN TERMS OF THE ROLE OF WOMENN
THESE TYPE OF ACTIVITIES, IT'S
NOT NECESSARILY NOVEL THING.
WE'VE SEEN WOMEN PLAY A
PROMINENT ROLE AS PROPAGANDISTS
PROMINENT ROLE AS
PROPAGANDISTS AND RECRUITERS.
AND RECRUITERS. WHAT IS
NOVEL IN THIS IS THE
WHAT IS NOVEL IN THIS IS THE
FACT THAT SHE WAS A MASS SHOOTER
FACT THAT SHE WAS A MASS
SHOOTER AND THAT'S UNLIKELY.
AND THAT'S UNLIKELY. >>
Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER,
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER,
THAT MAKES THE WORK OF THE
AUTHORITIES A LOT HARDER,
AUTHORITIES A LOT
HARDER, DOESN'T IT?
DOESN'T IT? >> THIS
IS VERY, VERY HARD.
>> THIS IS VERY, VERY HARD. THIS
IS THE COUNTERTERRORISM AND
THIS IS THE COUNTERTERRORISM AND
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL'S WORST
LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL'S
WORST NIGHTMARE.
NIGHTMARE. ONE OR
TWO INDIVIDUAL WITH
ONE OR TWO INDIVIDUAL WITH
WEAPONS WHO ARE EITHER
RADICALIZED OR MOTIVATED BY
ANYTHING, IT'S VERY HARD TO
ANYTHING, IT'S VERY
HARD TO DETECT.
DETECT. WE HAVE SOME
ADVANTAGES OVER OUR
WE HAVE SOME ADVANTAGES OVER OUR
EUROPEAN COUNTERPARTS AND SOME
EUROPEAN COUNTERPARTS
AND SOME DISADVANTAGES.
DISADVANTAGES. WHAT WE
SAW IN PARIS IS OPEN
WHAT WE SAW IN PARIS IS OPEN
BORDERS MAKING IT VERY HARD FOR
BORDERS MAKING IT VERY
HARD FOR EUROPEANS.
EUROPEANS. THE ISOLATED
MUSLIM COMMUNITIES,
THE ISOLATED MUSLIM COMMUNITIES,
MAKES IT VERY HARD FOR
MAKES IT VERY HARD
FOR EUROPEANS.
EUROPEANS. BUT HERE
IN THE UNITED STATES,
BUT HERE IN THE UNITED STATES,
THE TERRORISTS HAVE A REAL
ADVANTAGE AND THAT IS EASY
ADVANTAGE AND THAT IS
EASY ACCESS TO WEAPONS.
ACCESS TO WEAPONS. IT MAKES
ACTUALLY GOING TO THAT
IT MAKES ACTUALLY GOING TO THAT
STEP OF VIOLENCE THAT MUCH EAY
HARDER FOR COUNTERTERRORISM
OFFICIALS TO ULTIMATELY STOP.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SAYING
THAT'S A CONTRAST WITH EUROPE.
IT'S HARDER THERE TO GET THE
WEAPONS THAN IT IS HERE?
>> IT ABSOLUTELY IS.
>> IT ABSOLUTELY IS. IN MOST
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, THE
IN MOST EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, THE
U.K., AND FRANCE, ISSUES OF
U.K., AND FRANCE, ISSUES
OF RADICALIZATION ARE MORE
RADICALIZATION ARE
MORE PROBLEMATIC.
PROBLEMATIC. THEY ARE
MORE ISOLATED AND AGAIN
THEY ARE MORE ISOLATED AND AGAIN
THE OPEN BORDERS OF EUROPE MAKE
THE OPEN BORDERS OF EUROPE
MAKE IT HARDER TO DETECT.
IT HARDER TO DETECT. WE
HAVE SOME ADVANTAGES THERE
WE HAVE SOME ADVANTAGES THERE
BUT THE DI ACCESS TO WEAPONS
MAKES IT HARDER TO OFFICIALS
MAKES IT HARDER TO
OFFICIALS HERE.
HERE. >> Woodruff:
AGAIN WE WANT TO
>> Woodruff: AGAIN WE WANT TO
STRESS WE DON'T HAVE ALL THE
STRESS WE DON'T HAVE
ALL THE INFORMATION.
INFORMATION. IN FACT WE
REALLY JUST HAVE BITS
IN FACT WE REALLY JUST HAVE BITS
AND PIECES AT THIS POINT, BUT
SEAMUS HUGHES, WHEN YOU'RE
LOOKING AT THESE INDIVIDUALS, IS
LOOKING AT THESE INDIVIDUALS,
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT HAPPENS
THIS SOMETHING THAT HAPPENS
GRADUALLY OVER A PERIOD OF TIME?
OR DOES-- IS THERE ONE INCIDENT
THAT TEND TO MAKE THEM SNAP AND
DECIDE, "I'M GOING TO GO IN THAT
DECIDE, "I'M GOING TO
GO IN THAT DIRECTION?"
DIRECTION?" >>
AGAIN, IT'S A HIGHLY
>> AGAIN, IT'S A HIGHLY
INDIVIDUALIZED PROCESS.
WE'VE SEEN MONTHS.
WE'VE SEEN MONTHS. BUT
WITH THE ADVENT OF SOCIL
BUT WITH THE ADVENT OF SOCIL
MEDIA THE PROCESS HAS SHRUNK
CONSIDERABLY AND USUALLY THERE
IS SOME SORT OF TRIGGER EVENT,
SOMETHING THAT PUSHES SOMEONE
SOMETHING THAT PUSHES
SOMEONE OVER THE EDGE.
OVER THE EDGE. THEY
ALREADY HAVE THIS WORLD
THEY ALREADY HAVE THIS WORLD
VIEW AND ONE MORE THING TRIGGERS
VIEW AND ONE MORE THING
TRIGGERS THEM TO ACTION.
THEM TO ACTION. >> Woodruff:
MICHAEL LEITER, I
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER, I
THINK THE QUESTION ON A LOT OF
PEOPLE'S MINDS TONIGHT IS WHAT
MORE CAN BE DONE TO IDENTIFY
INDIVIDUALS WHO MAY BE AT RISK
OF DOING SOMETHING LIKE THIS?
>> WELL, I DON'T WANT TO SAY
IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO STOP THESE,
BUT IT'S VERY, VERY DIFFICULT.
BUT IT'S VERY, VERY DIFFICULT. I
DO THInK THAT MAKING SURE T
I DO THInK THAT MAKING SURE T
INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE ON THE WATCH
LIST-- NOT THIS CASE-- ARE
CHECKED WHEN THEY BUY WEAPONS.
CHECKED WHEN THEY BUY WEAPONS. I
THINK THAT'S A CRITICAL STEP.
I THINK THAT'S A CRITICAL STEP.
WE THEN HAVE TO HAVE REALLY DEEP
WE THEN HAVE TO HAVE REALLY
DEEP ENGAGEMENT WITH MUSLIM
ENGAGEMENT WITH MUSLIM
COMMUNITIES IN THE UNITED
COMMUNITIES IN THE UNITED STATES
STATES SO THOSE
COMMUNITIES FEEL THEY
SO THOSE COMMUNITIES
FEEL THEY ARE A PARTNER.
ARE A PARTNER. IT IS NOT
ADVERSARIAL BETWEEN
IT IS NOT ADVERSARIAL BETWEEN
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND THEM.
LAW ENFORCEMENT AND THEM. AND
THEY WILL IDENTIFY THESE
AND THEY WILL IDENTIFY THESE
INDIVIDUALS, THEY WILL REPORT
INDIVIDUALS, THEY
WILL REPORT THEM.
THEM. WE'RE NOT
ALWAYS GOING TO HAVE
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS GOING TO HAVE
INDICATORS, SO WHAT INTELLIGENCE
CAN DO IS FIND THOSE PLACE
WHERE'S WE HAVE INDICATORS,
WHETHER IT'S TRAVEL OR ONLINE
ACTIVITY, AND THEN RELY ON E
ACTIVITY, AND THEN RELY ON
E COMMUNITIES TO PARTNER WITH
COMMUNITIES TO PARTNER WITH
GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS AND MAKE
CLEAR THAT THIS IS NOT A WAR OF
THE U.S. VERSUS ISLAM BUT IN
FACT IT IS A PARTNERSHIP AGAINST
PEOPLE WHO ARE PURSUING VIOLENCE
FOR ANY NUMBER OF REASONS.
>> Woodruff: MICHAEL LEITER,
SEAMUS HUGHES, WE THANK YOU
SEAMUS HUGHES, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
BOTH. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >>
Woodruff: AND FOR ANY
>> Woodruff: AND FOR ANY
UPDATES, WE WILL CONTINUE OUR
COVERAGE OF THE STORY THROUGHOUT
THE ONLINE AT PBS.ORG/NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: IN ANNOUNCING HIS
DECISION TO FULLY OPEN THE RANKS
OF THE COMBAT MILITARY TO WOMEN,
DEFENSE SECRETARY ASH CARTER
SAID THE U.S. CANNOT AFFORD TO
IGNORE HALF ITS POPULATION,
ESPECIALLY AT A TIME WHEN NEW
ESPECIALLY AT A TIME WHEN
NEW CHALLENGES AWAIT.
CHALLENGES AWAIT. I SAT
DOWN WITH THE MILITARY'S
I SAT DOWN WITH THE MILITARY'S
TOP CIVILIAN TODAY AT THE
PENTAGON TO TALK ABOUT THAT
HISTORIC CHANGE, AND ABOUT
TAKING THE FIGHT TO ISIS, AT
TAKING THE FIGHT TO ISIS,
AT HOME AND ABROAD.
HOME AND ABROAD. MR.
SECRETARY, THANK YOU SO MUCH
MR. SECRETARY, THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
FOR JOINING US. TODAY, YOU
ANNOUNCED THAT YOU'RE
TODAY, YOU ANNOUNCED THAT YOU'RE
GOING TO OPEN MANY COMBAT ROLES
IN THE MILITARY TO WOMEN.
THERE HAD BEEN THE COUNTLESS
REPORTS ABOUT THE PROS AND CONS
REPORTS ABOUT THE PROS
AND CONS OF THIS.
OF THIS. HOW DID YOU
FINALLY REACH YOUR
HOW DID YOU FINALLY
REACH YOUR DECISION?
DECISION? >> WELL,
WE HAD DONE, OVER A
>> WELL, WE HAD DONE, OVER A
PERIOD OF SEVERAL YEARS, A
PERIOD OF SEVERAL YEARS,
A NUMBER OF STUDIES.
NUMBER OF STUDIES. WE'D
SURVEYED THE FORCE, DONE
WE'D SURVEYED THE FORCE, DONE
EXPERIMENTS, AND THEN I RECEI
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE SUBJECT
OF THE ARMY, THE SECRETARY OF
THE NAVY, THE SECRETARY OF THE
AIR FORCE, THE HEAD OF OUR
SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND ABOUT
WOMEN IN SPECIAL OPERATIONS, AND
WOMEN IN SPECIAL OPERATIONS,
AND ALL OF OUR JOINT CHIEFS OF
ALL OF OUR JOINT
CHIEFS OF STAFF.
STAFF. AND I TOOK ALL
THAT DATA AND ALL
AND I TOOK ALL THAT DATA AND
ALL THEIR SUGGESTIONS AND
THEIR SUGGESTIONS AND
RECOMMENDATIONS INTO ACCOUNT,
AND CAME TO THE DECISION TO OPEN
AND CAME TO THE DECISION TO
OPEN UP ALL REMAINING MILITARY
UP ALL REMAINING MILITARY
SPECIALTIES TO FEMALES.
SPECIALTIES TO FEMALES. AND
THE REASON FOR THAT IS
AND THE REASON FOR THAT IS
SIMPLY THIS-- WE HAVE AN
SIMPLY THIS-- WE HAVE
AN ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY.
ALL-VOLUNTEER MILITARY. AND
IN ORDER TO HAVE, AS WE HAVE
AND IN ORDER TO HAVE, AS WE
HAVE IN THE FUTURE WHAT WE HAVE
IN THE FUTURE WHAT WE HAVE
TODAY-- WHICH IS THE FINEST
FIGHTING FORCE THE WORLD HAS
EVER KNOWN-- I NEED TO BE ABLE
TO REACH INTO THE ENTIRETY OF
TO REACH INTO THE ENTIRETY
OF THE AMERICAN POPULATION.
THE AMERICAN POPULATION.
REMEMBER, AN ALL-VOLUNTEER
REMEMBER, AN
ALL-VOLUNTEER FORCE.
FORCE. SO I WANT TO
RECRUIT FROM ALL
SO I WANT TO RECRUIT
FROM ALL POOLS.
POOLS. >> Ifill: YOU SAID TODAY
>> Ifill: YOU SAID TODAY
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY DID NOT
EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY DID
NOT GUARANTEE EQUALITY OF
GUARANTEE EQUALITY
OF PARTICIPATION.
PARTICIPATION. >> NO.
>> NO. >> Ifill:
EXPLAIN WHAT YOU
>> Ifill: EXPLAIN WHAT
YOU MEAN Be THAT.
MEAN Be THAT. >>fERE
ARE SOME AREAS, FOR
>>fERE ARE SOME AREAS, FOR
EXAMPLE, SOME OF THE SPECIALTIES
BEING OPENED UP TODAY, WHERE
PHYSICAL ENDURANCE AND RAW
PHYSICAL ABILITY IS AN IMPORTANT
PART OF, FOR EXAMPLE, LOADING AN
PART OF, FOR EXAMPLE,
LOADING AN ARTILLERY PIECE.
ARTILLERY PIECE. NOW, THERE
ARE WOMEN WHO CAN DO
NOW, THERE ARE WOMEN WHO CAN DO
THAT AND THERE ARE WOMEN WHO CAN
DO IT BETTER THAN SOME MEN.
DO IT BETTER THAN SOME MEN. BUT
YOU CAN'T-- THE DATA SHOWS
BUT YOU CAN'T-- THE DATA SHOWS
VERY CLEARLY THAT ON AVERAGE,
WOMEN IN THAT AGE COHORT DON'T
HAVE THOSE PHYSICAL ABILITIES
AS GREAT A PROPORTION AS MEN DO.
SO YOU CAN EXPECT SPECIALTIES
LIKE THAT WILL NOT HAVE AS MANY
MEN IN THEM-- SORRY, WOMEN IN
MEN IN THEM-- SORRY,
WOMEN IN THEM AS MEN.
THEM AS MEN. AND WE
NEED TO-- REMEMBER, WE
AND WE NEED TO-- REMEMBER, WE
NEED-- WHAT WE'RE FOCUSED HERE
ON IS MISSION EFFECTIVENESS,
PROTECTING OUR COUNTRY AND
PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE.
PROTECTING OUR PEOPLE. THAT'S
THE PRINCIPAL REASON TO
THAT'S THE PRINCIPAL
REASON TO DO THIS.
DO THIS. AND SO, WE'RE
GOING TO NEED TO
AND SO, WE'RE GOING TO NEED TO
DO IT ACCORDING TO STANDARDS.
>> Ifill: IT HAS BEEN--
>> Ifill: IT HAS
BEEN-- >> NO QUOTAS.
>> NO QUOTAS. >>
Ifill: NO QUOTAS.
>> Ifill: NO QUOTAS. IT
HAS BEEN WIDELY REPORTED,
IT HAS BEEN WIDELY REPORTED,
HOWEVER, ABOUT THE DISAGREEMENT
AMONG SOME RANCHES OF THE
MILITARY ABOUT THIS, INCLUDING,
AMONG THEM, THE MARINES.
AMONG THEM, THE MARINES. HOW
DID YOU COPE WITH THOSE
HOW DID YOU COPE WITH THOSE
OBJECTIONS THAT THIS WOULD BE A
THREAT TO UNION COHESION, THAT
THREAT TO UNION COHESION,
THAT THIS WOULD BE A SOCIAL
THIS WOULD BE A SOCIAL
EXPERIMENT GONE WRONG?
EXPERIMENT GONE WRONG? >>
WELL, ALL OF THE SERVICE
>> WELL, ALL OF THE SERVICE
SECRETARIES AND THE HEAD OF
SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND AND
ALL OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF
STAFF, EXCEPT ONE, RECOMMENDED
THAT WE OPEN UP ALL OF THE
SPECIALTIES FOR WHICH THEY E
SPECIALTIES FOR WHICH
THEY E RESPONSIBLE.
RESPONSIBLE. THE
COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE
THE COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE
CORPS RECOMMENDED THAT WE OPEN
CORPS RECOMMENDED THAT WE
OPEN UP MOST MARINE CORPS
UP MOST MARINE CORPS
SPECIALTIES, BUT NOT A FEW.
SPECIALTIES, BUT NOT A FEW. I
LISTENED VERY CAREFULLY TO
I LISTENED VERY CAREFULLY TO
WHAT HE SAID, PARTICULARLY SINCE
HE'S THE SAME PERSON-- THIS IS
HE'S THE SAME PERSON-- THIS
IS GENERAL JOE DUNFORD-- THEY
GENERAL JOE DUNFORD-- THEY
RECOMMENDED TO THE PRESIDENT BE
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS
THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.
OF STAFF. AND,
THEREFORE, MY AND THE
AND, THEREFORE, MY AND THE
PRESIDENT'S SENIOR MILITARY
PRESIDENT'S SENIOR
MILITARY ADVISER.
ADVISER. SO HE'S A MAN OF GREAT
SO HE'S A MAN OF GREAT
EXPERIENCE AND WISDOM.
EXPERIENCE AND WISDOM. I
LISTEN TO HIM IN EVERYTHI.
I LISTEN TO HIM IN EVERYTHI.
I LISTENED TO HIM IN THIS REGARD
I LISTENED TO HIM IN
THIS REGARD AS WELL--
AS WELL-- >> Ifill: AND YET YOU
>> Ifill: AND YET YOU
OVERRULED HIM IN THE END.
OVERRULED HIM IN THE END. >>
IN THIS REGARD I CAME TO A
>> IN THIS REGARD I CAME
TO A DIFFERENT CONCLUSION.
DIFFERENT CONCLUSION. I
AGREED WITH MUCH OF WHAT HE
I AGREED WITH MUCH OF WHAT HE
SAID, BUT NOT THAT PARTICULAR
SAID, BUT NOT THAT
PARTICULAR MATTER.
MATTER. >> Ifill:
IF YOU COMPARE THIS
>> Ifill: IF YOU COMPARE THIS
TO OTHER TURNING POINTS IN THE
MILITARY, THE INTEXWRAIGZ OF THE
FORCE, DON'T ASK-DON'T TELL, THE
ADJUSTMENT TO CYBER WARFARE, HOW
DOES THIS RANK IN TERMS OF THE
POTENTIAL CHANGE THIS WILL BRING
POTENTIAL CHANGE THIS WILL
BRING TO THE NATION'S jU8 v
TO THE NATION'S jU8 v >> WELL,
I'M INCREDIBLY PROUDF
>> WELL, I'M INCREDIBLY PROUDF
THIS PLACE BECAUSE WHEN THEY
TAKE SOMETHING ON, THEY DO IT
TAKE SOMETHING ON,
THEY DO IT WELL.
WELL. WHEN THEY TOOK ON NEW
WHEN THEY TOOK ON NEW
TECHNOLOGY-- YOU MENTION CYBER--
TECHNOLOGY-- YOU MENTION
CYBER-- THEY TAKE IT ON WELL.
THEY TAKE IT ON WELL. WHEN
WE TOOK ON DON'T ASK-DON'T
WHEN WE TOOK ON DON'T ASK-DON'T
TELL-- WE DID IT IN A YOU
TELL-- WE DID IT IN A YOU CEN'
CEN' DO TL H BEEN-- WE'LL
DO TL H BEEN-- WE'LL MAKE A
SUCCESS OF THIS AS WELL.
MAKE A SUCCESS OF THIS AS WELL.
>> Ifill: I WANT TO CHANGE THE
TOPIC FOR A MOMENT, TALK TO YOU
TOPIC FOR A MOMENT, TALK TO
YOU A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SMUG
A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SMUG
TESTIFIED TO CONGRESS ABOUT
EARLIER THIS WEEK WHICH IS OUR
ESCALATION OF AMERICAN-- FOR
LACK OF A BETTER PHRASE-- BOOTS
ON THE GROUND IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
ON THE GROUND IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA. YOU SAID WE ARE AT WAR.
YOU SAID WE ARE AT WAR. COULD
YOU BETTER DEFINE FOR ME
COULD YOU BETTER DEFINE
FOR ME WHAT THAT MEANS.
WHAT THAT MEANS. >> WELL,
I WAS USING IT IN A
>> WELL, I WAS USING IT IN A
VERY COMMONSENSE WAY, NOT IN A
VERY COMMONSENSE WAY, NOT
IN A LEGALISTIC WAY.
LEGALISTIC WAY. THIS IS
AN ENEMY THAT MUST BE
THIS IS AN ENEMY THAT MUST BE
DEFEATED, THAT WILL BE DEFEATED.
IT REQUIRES A LEVEL OF
COMMITMENT AND DEDICATION AND
pEFFORT ON OUR PART THAT DESERVS
pEFFORT ON OUR PART
THAT DESERVS THAT WORD.
THAT WORD. >> Ifill:
HOW EFFECTIVE CAN
>> Ifill: HOW EFFECTIVE CAN
YOU BE WHEN PRIME MINISTER
ABADI, AND MANY-- EVERYDAY
IRAQISS LOOK AT THE IDEA OF AN
INCREASED U.S. PRESENCE AS A
INCREASED U.S.
PRESENCE AS A THREAT?
THREAT? >> PRIME
MINISTER ABADI WELCOMED
>> PRIME MINISTER ABADI WELCOMED
THE U.S. PRESENCE, AND HE HAS--
>> Ifill: HE SENT KIND OF A
>> Ifill: HE SENT KIND OF
A MIXED MESSAGE ON THAT.
MIXED MESSAGE ON THAT. >>
WELL, I THINK WHAT PRIME
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT PRIME
MINISTER ABADI WANTS AND
RECEIVE IS THAT IS HE IS
CONSULTED, AND WE HAVE HIS
CONSENT EVERY TIME WE OPERATE IN
CONSENT EVERY TIME WE
OPERATE IN HIS COUNTRY.
HIS COUNTRY. NOW,
IT'S TRUE THAT PRIME
NOW, IT'S TRUE THAT PRIME
MINISTER ABADI, EVEN THOUGH I
BELIEVE-- I'VE TALKED TO HIM
MANY TIMES-- HAS THE RIGHT IDEAS
MANY TIMES-- HAS THE RIGHT
IDEAS FOR THE FUTURE OF IRAQ,
FOR THE FUTURE OF IRAQ,
BAGHDAD'S A COMPLICATED CASE,
AND HE DOESN'T ALWAYS GET HIS
AND HE DOESN'T
ALWAYS GET HIS WAY.
WAY. THAT WE WATCH
VERY CAREFULLY.
THAT WE WATCH VERY CAREFULLY.
>> Ifill: SO THERE'S A LITTLE
INTERNAL POLITICS GOING ON?
>> ENORMOUS INTERNAL POLITICS
>> ENORMOUS INTERNAL
POLITICS THERE.
THERE. AND SOME OF THAT'S OKAY.
AND SOME OF THAT'S OKAY.
ABADI'S STRATEGY TOWARDS
GOVERNING IRAQ MAKES SENSE, WHAT
HE CALLS DECENTRALIZATION, SO
SUNNIS, KURDS, AND SHIA ALL LIVE
SUNNIS, KURDS, AND SHIA ALL
LIVE TOGETHER IN ONE COUNTRY.
TOGETHER IN ONE COUNTRY.
THEY'RE NOT AT EACH OTHER ALL
THE TIME BUT THEY HAVE ENOUGH
LOCALIZED RULE THAT THEY'RE NOT
LOCALIZED RULE THAT THEY'RE
NOT UNDER EACH OTHER'S THUMB.
UNDER EACH OTHER'S THUMB.
THAT'S AS GOOD AS IT GETS IN
THAT'S AS GOOD AS
IT GETS IN IRAQ.
IRAQ. >> Ifill: I
KNOW YOU ARE AWARE
>> Ifill: I KNOW YOU ARE AWARE
OF THE CRITICISMS THAT COME FROM
CAPITOL HILL BECAUSE YOU WERE
THERE, AND THE COMMITTEE
CHAIRMAN MAC THORN BERRY TOLD US
THE NIGHT YOU TESTIFIED ON THE
NEWSHOUR THAT YOUR APPROACH IS
NEWSHOUR THAT YOUR APPROACH
IS TOO GRADUAL, WE'RE BEING
TOO GRADUAL, WE'RE BEING
RESPONSIVE RATHER THAN ACTING,
AND THAT THE WHITE HOUSE IS
ESSENTIALLY MICROMANAGING OUR
MILITARY ACTION FROM, AS HE PUT
IT, THE BASEMENT OF THE WHITE
IT, THE BASEMENT OF
THE WHITE HOUSE.
HOUSE. >> NOT TRUE.
>> NOT TRUE. WE ARE
LOOKING-- WE'RE NOT
WE ARE LOOKING--
WE'RE NOT REACTING.
REACTING. WE'RE ACTUALLY ON THE
WE'RE ACTUALLY ON
THE INITIATIVE.
INITIATIVE. WE'RE LOOKING
FOR EVERY WAY WE
WE'RE LOOKING FOR EVERY WAY WE
CAN TO ATTACK AND DESTROY ISIL.
THE STRATEGY, THE FUNDAMENTALS
OF OUR STRATEGY IN IRAQ AND
SYRIA IS THAT NOT ONLY TO DEFEAT
ISIL, BUT TO INFLICT A LASTING
ISIL, BUT TO INFLICT
A LASTING DEFEAT.
DEFEAT. AS FAR AS
THE WHITE HOUSE IS
AS FAR AS THE WHITE HOUSE IS
CONCERNED, THE PRESIDENT TAELD
ME THE SAME THING I TELL OUR
MILITARY COMMANDERS, WHICH IS
WHEN YOU HAVE ANOTHER WAY OF
GOING AT THIS, WE'RE GOING TO DO
GOING AT THIS, WE'RE
GOING TO DO IT.
IT. NOW, WE JUST-- WHAT I WAS
NOW, WE JUST-- WHAT I WAS
DESCRIBING UP ON CAPITOL HILL
EARLIER IS SEVERAL DIFFERENT
WAYS THAT WE'VE IMPROVED OUR
CAMPAIGN JUST IN THE LAST FEW
CAMPAIGN JUST IN THE
LAST FEW WEEKS.
WEEKS. THE EXPEDITIONARY
TARGETING
THE EXPEDITIONARY TARGETING
FORCE, WHICH WILL BE A FORCE
THAT WILL COME IN AT NIGHT AND
CAPTURE PEOPLE, KILL LEADERS,
DESTROY, SEIZE, GET HOSTAGES,
FREE HOSTAGES-- AS WE DID A FEW
WEEKS AGO-- AND CAUSE EVERY ISIL
LEADER THROUGHOUT SYRIA AND IRAQ
TO WONDER WHETHER THE AMERICANS
ARE GOING TO COME TONIGHT.
>> Ifill: YOU ARE DESCRIBING
WARFARE THAT(WD ARE FAMILIAR
WITH, BUT ISIL, AS FAR AS WE CAN
TELL, GIVEN WHAT HAPPENED IN
PARIS AND WHAT MAY BE HAPPENING
HERE WITHIN OUR OWN BORDERS, IS
FAR MORE ALL OVER THE PLACE THAN
FAR MORE ALL OVER THE
PLACE THAN THAT.
THAT. HOW DO WE
DEAL WITH THE IDEA
HOW DO WE DEAL WITH THE IDEA
THAT ISIL IS RADICALIZING
ENEMIES AROUND THE WORLD, THAT
BOOTS ON THE GROUND CAN'T
BOOTS ON THE GROUND
CAN'T APPROACH?
APPROACH? >> WELL,
EXACTLY RIGHT.
>> WELL, EXACTLY RIGHT. AND
THAT'S WHY ITS BOOTS ARE
AND THAT'S WHY ITS BOOTS ARE
IMPORTANT IN IRAQ AND SYRIA-- BY
THE WAY, I JUST REMIND YOU THAT
WE HAVE 35 HUNDRED BOOTS ON THE
WE HAVE 35 HUNDRED BOOTS
ON THE GROUND IN IRAQ.
GROUND IN IRAQ. PEOPLE
TALK ABOUT BOOTS ON TH
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT
BOOTS ON TH GROUND.
GROUND. THERE ARE
BOOTS ON THE GROUND,
THERE ARE BOOTS ON THE GROUND,
AND THEY'RE DOING AN EXCELLENT
AND THEY'RE DOING
AN EXCELLENT JOB.
JOB. >> Ifill: NOT
ENOUGH, BY THE
>> Ifill: NOT ENOUGH, BY THE
WAY, IS WHAT MAC THORNBERRY
WAY, IS WHAT MAC
THORNBERRY SAYS.
SAYS. >> THAT'S WHAT
I SAID AS WELL.
>> THAT'S WHAT I SAID AS WELL.
WE'RE LOOKING FOR OPPORTUNITIES
WE'RE LOOKING FOR
OPPORTUNITIES TO PUT MORE ON.
TO PUT MORE ON. BUT TO
GET TO YOUR OTHER POINT,
BUT TO GET TO YOUR OTHER POINT,
YES, THE FIGHT CHANGES AROUND
THE WORLD, CHANGES FROM A PLACE
LIKE LIBYA OR AFGHANISTAN WHERE
SOME MOSTLY FORMER TALIBAN
MEMBERS HAVE TAKEN THE ISIL FLAG
MEMBERS HAVE TAKEN
THE ISIL FLAG UP.
UP. AND THOSE NEED
TO BE DEALT WITH
AND THOSE NEED TO BE DEALT WITH
HERE TO THE UNITED STATES, WHERE
WE'VE HAD PEOPLE, SOME OF THEM
JUST LOSER-- LOSERS WITH A
KEYBOARD, WHO GET EXCITEED BY
ISIL PROPAGANDA AND DECIDE TO
TAKE OFF AGAINST OUR FELLOW
TAKE OFF AGAINST OUR
FELLOW CITIZENS.
CITIZENS. SO THIS IS
THE FIRST-EVER SOCIAL
SO THIS IS THE FIRST-EVER
SOCIAL MEDIA ENEMY.
MEDIA ENEMY. AND SO
IT'S A-- IT'S NEW.
AND SO IT'S A-- IT'S NEW.
NOW, IT'S SOMETHING WE CAN
DEFEAT, BUT WE HAVE TO BE
DEFEAT, BUT WE HAVE TO
BE INGENIOUS, AND T@a(
INGENIOUS, AND T@a(
COMMITTED TO THINKING AND
WORKING AND ADAPTING SO THAT WE
CHANGE OUR TECHNIQUES AND OUR
AVENUES OF ATTACKS SO THEY DON'T
KNOW WE'RE TAKING THEM BY
SURPRISE, AND WE'RE DOING NEW
SURPRISE, AND WE'RE DOING
NEW THINGS TO DEFEAT THEM.
THINGS TO DEFEAT THEM. THAT'S
WHY I SAY IT'S A DYNAMIC
THAT'S WHY I SAY IT'S
A DYNAMIC CAMPAIGN.
CAMPAIGN. WHAT I WAS
SAYING ON CAPITOL
WHAT I WAS SAYING ON CAPITOL
HILL EARLIER THIS WEEK IS HERE
ARE THE NEW THINGS WE'VE DONE
JUST IN THE LAST TWO OR THREE
JUST IN THE LAST TWO
OR THREE WEEKS.
WEEKS. WE'RE GOING
TO KEEP DOING THAT
WE'RE GOING TO KEEP DOING THAT
UNTIL THEY'RE DEFEATED, WHICH
UNTIL THEY'RE DEFEATED,
WHICH THEY WILL BE.
THEY WILL BE. >> Ifill:
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
>> Ifill: SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
ASH CARTER, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
ASH CARTER, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH. >> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: WE NOW TURN TO
OUR SERIES "NIGEA: PRIAIN AND
SERIES "NIGEA:
PRIAIN AND PROMISE."
PROMISE." TONIGHT,
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
TONIGHT, SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
NICK SCHIFRIN DETAILS THE ABUSE
AND MISTREATMENT OF GAYS IN THE
COUNTRY-- BY LAW ENFORCEMENT,
AND BY MUSLIM AND CHRISTIAN
AND BY MUSLIM AND
CHRISTIAN GROUPS.
GROUPS. A WARNING:
IT CONTAH S SOME
A WARNING: IT CONTAH S
SOME DISTURBING IMAGES.
DISTURBING IMAGES. >>
Reporter: IN NIGERIA THIS
>> Reporter: IN NIGERIA THIS
HOUSE OF GOD HAS BECOME EYE HOME
HOUSE OF GOD HAS BECOME
EYE HOME FOR HATE.
FOR HATE. DO YOU
BELIEVE THAT GAY MEN
DO YOU BELIEVE THAT GAY MEN
DESERVE THE SAME RIGHTS AS
DESERVE THE SAME RIGHTS
AS EVERYONE ELSE?
EVERYONE ELSE? >> THE
YGA MAN KNOWS THAT
>> THE YGA MAN KNOWS THAT
BECAUSE OF HIS PRACTICES, HE HAS
BECAUSE OF HIS PRACTICES, HE
HAS NO RIGHT EQUAL TO ANOTHER
NO RIGHT EQUAL TO
ANOTHER PERSON.
PERSON. >> Reporter:
REVEREND JOSHUA
>> Reporter: REVEREND JOSHUA
MAYNARD LEADS THE STATE'S 50,000
MAYNARD LEADS THE STATE'S
50,000 CHRISTIANS.
CHRISTIANS. AS THE
SERVICE BEGINS, THE BAND
AS THE SERVICE BEGINS, THE BAND
STARTS A HYMN ABOUT CHRIST'S
STARTS A HYMN ABOUT
CHRIST'S SACRIFICE.
SACRIFICE. AND THEN IT
DELIVERS A WARNING.
AND THEN IT DELIVERS A
WARNING. "END TIMES ARE HERE."
"END TIMES ARE HERE."
REVEREND MAYNARD SAYS THEY'RE
HERE BECAUSE OF ONE THING.
>> HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> HOMOSEXUALITY. SODOMY.
SODOMY. IT IS EVIL
TO THIS COUNTRY.
IT IS EVIL TO THIS COUNTRY.
IT IS EVIL TO OUR CULTURE.
IT IS EVIL TO OUR CULTURE. IT
IS EVIL TO WHAT BELIEVE AND
IT IS EVIL TO WHAT BELIEVE
AND THAT IS CHRISTIANITY.
THAT IS CHRISTIANITY. IT IS
EVIL TO WHAT WE INHERITED
IT IS EVIL TO WHAT WE
INHERITED FROM OUR FATHERS.
FROM OUR FATHERS. IT IS
EVIL AGAINST ANYTHING THAT
IT IS EVIL AGAINST ANYTHING
THAT WE HOLD SO DEAR.
WE HOLD SO DEAR.
PREACH AGAINST THEM.
STAND AGAINST THEM.
STAND AGAINST THEM. IF YOU
WANT TO GO BY THEM, THE
IF YOU WANT TO GO BY THEM, THE
WRATH OF GOD WILL FALL UPON YOU.
>> Reporter: IN THEEST, W HIS
SERMON HAS BECOME THE OUTLIER.
IN NIGERIA, IT'S RED MEAT.
IN NIGERIA, IT'S RED MEAT. >>
>> AND I THINK
THAT IS ONE OF THE
AND I THINK THAT IS ONE OF THE
REASONS WHY SOADOM AND GOMORRAH,
HAD TO BE WIPED OUT BECAUSE OF
HAD TO BE WIPED OUT
BECAUSE OF HOMOSEXUALISM.
HOMOSEXUALISM. >> POPE
FRANCIS SAID, "WHO AM I
>> POPE FRANCIS SAID, "WHO
AM I TO JUDGE A GAY MAN?"
TO JUDGE A GAY MAN?" WHY
DO YOU THINK YOU SHOULD
WHY DO YOU THINK
YOU SHOULD JUDGE?
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEM IS
A!AT'S EXACTLY WHAT'S HAPPENE.
LAST JANUARY, NIGERIA MADE
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE AND ADVOCATING
FOR GAY RIGHTS CRIMES.
SINCE THEN, NOBODY'S BEEN
SENTENCED, BUT POLICE,
STATE-SPONSORED VIGILANTES, EVEN
STATE-SPONSORED VIGILANTES,
EVEN PUBLIC MOBS ARE ACCUSED OF
PUBLIC MOBS ARE ACCUSED OF
EXPLOITING THE LAW TO ABUSE AND
EXPLOITING THE LAW
TO ABUSE AND EXPORT.
EXPORT. IN ANOTHER
VIDEO, A MOB ACCUSES
IN ANOTHER VIDEO, A MOB ACCUSES
A MAN OF BEING GAY.
A MAN OF BEING GAY. AND
THEN THE ACCUSERS TAKE OFF
AND THEN THE ACCUSERS
TAKE OFF THEIR BELTS.
THEIR BELTS. GAY NIJEERNZ
SAY SINCE THE LAW
GAY NIJEERNZ SAY SINCE THE LAW
WAS PASSED, HAD KIND OF ABUSE
HAS BECOME COMMON, AND NOT JUST
HAS BECOME COMMON, AND
NOT JUST BY VIGILANTES.
>> Reporter: BRIAN SAYS POLICE
OFFICERS PICKED HIM OFF THE
STREET AND BEAT HIM INSIDE THIS
STREET AND BEAT HIM INSIDE
THIS POLICE STATION.
>> Reporter: IN LEGOS, BRIAN AND
A GROUP OF GAY MEN AGREED TO
AND A GROUP OF GAY MEN AGREED TO
MEET AND OPENLY DISCUSS THEIR
MEET AND OPENLY DISCUSS
THEIR HOMOSEXUALITY.
>> Reporter: SIMMION IS
GAY AND H.I.V. POSITIVE.
>> Reporter: YOU CONSIDERED
COMMITTING SUICIDE?
>> WHY DO YOU
THINK THIS LAW IS
>> WHY DO YOU THINK THIS
LAW IS ACTUALLY PASSED?
ACTUALLY PASSED? >>
Reporter: THE LAW DOESN'T
>> Reporter: THE LAW DOESN'T
ONLY PUNISH SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
BY ADVOCATING FOR GAY RIGHTS,
THESE MEN COULD BE SENTENCED TO
THESE MEN COULD BE
SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS.
10 YEARS.
BY TALKING TO THEM, I ALSO COULD
BE SENTENCED TO 10 YEARS.
>> WE'RE RESPONSIBLE FOR
>> WE'RE RESPONSIBLE
FOR OURSELVES.
OURSELVES. >> YES.
>> YES. >> OKAY.
>> OKAY. WE CANNOT
HAVE HETEROSEXUALS
WE CANNOT HAVE HETEROSEXUALS
COME AND BE RESPONSIBLE FOR YOU.
>> 27-YEAR-OLD PETER CASS IS THE
>> 27-YEAR-OLD PETER CASS
IS THE GROUP'S ORGANIZER.
GROUP'S ORGANIZER. HERE
HAS BEEN A GAE RIGHTS
HERE HAS BEEN A GAE RIGHTS
ACTIVIST SINCE BEFORE THE LAW,
EVER SINCE ONE DAY IN CHURCH HIS
EVER SINCE ONE DAY IN
CHURCH HIS PASTOR TOLD HIM.
PASTOR TOLD HIM. >> YOU'RE
GAY, YOU'RE PERVERTED,
>> YOU'RE GAY, YOU'RE PERVERTED,
YOU'RE POSSESSED, ALL SLANDERING
WORDS AND THEY NEEDED
DELIVERANCE AND I WAS TRYING TO
BRING SODOMY AND GOMORRAH, INTO
BRING SODOMY AND GOMORRAH,
INTO THE CHURCH.
THE CHURCH. >> Reporter:
CAN YOU SHOW ME
>> Reporter: CAN YOU
SHOW ME YOUR HOUSE?
YOUR HOUSE? >> OKAY.
>> OKAY. >> Reporter:
DOWN THE STREET,
>> Reporter: DOWN THE STREET,
CASS SHOWS ME THE SAFE HOUSE HE
RUNS FOR GAY MEN AND WOMEN.
IT'S OFTEN O]ERWHELMED.
IT'S OFTEN O]ERWHELMED. AND
YOU HAVE TO SHARE THIS SPACE
AND YOU HAVE TO SHARE THIS
SPACE WITH HOW MANY PEOPLE?
WITH HOW MANY PEOPLE? >>
SEVEN PEOPLE, SOMETIMES.
>> SEVEN PEOPLE, SOMETIMES. >>
Reporter: YOU SAID YOURSELF
>> Reporter: YOU SAID YOURSELF
THIS IS RELATIVELY BASIC.
DO YOU WISH YOU COULD OFFER
DO YOU WISH YOU
COULD OFFER MORE?
MORE? >> YEAH, I
WISH I COULD OFFER
>> YEAH, I WISH I COULD OFFER
MORE SERIOUSLY BECAUSE WE HAVE
TOO MANY ISSUES OF THE L.G.B.T.
BEING KICKED OUT OF THEIR HOMES
BEING KICKED OUT OF THEIR
HOMES BECAUSE THEY ARE GAY.
BECAUSE THEY ARE GAY. >>
Reporter: WHEN BRIAN TOLD
>> Reporter: WHEN BRIAN TOLD
HIS FAMILY HE WAS GAY, HE WAS
HIS FAMILY HE WAS GAY,
HE WAS DISOWNED.
>> Reporter: AS DIFFICULT AS
LIFE IS FOR GAY CHRISTIANS IN
NIGERIA, IT'S WORSE FOR MUSLIMS.
IN NORTHERN NIGERIA, THE BOUCHE
SECURITY COMMITTEE ENFORCES T
SECURITY COMMITTEE ENFORCES
T STATE'S ISLAMIC LAW.
STATE'S ISLAMIC LAW. EVERY
NIGHT THEY WALK THROUGH
EVERY NIGHT THEY WALK THROUGH
ALLEYS AND MARKETS, HOPING TO
PUNISH WHAT THEY CONSIDER VICE.
FOR THEM, THE CRIMINALS INCLUDE
FOR THEM, THE CRIMINALS
INCLUDE GAY MEN.
GAY MEN. THEIR LEADER BELIEVES
THEIR LEADER BELIEVES
HOMOSEXUALITY IS THE SAME AS
HOMOSEXUALITY IS THE
SAME AS PEDOPHILIA.
PEDOPHILIA. WHY DO YOU
EQUATE GAY ACTIVITY
WHY DO YOU EQUATE GAY ACTIVITY
WITH PEDOPHILIA, WITH CHILDREN?
>> Reporter: AFTER THEY
PATROL, THEY'RE CALM.
PATROL, THEY'RE CALM. IN
THIS COMMUNITY, THEY'RE THE
IN THIS COMMUNITY,
THEY'RE THE HUNTERS.
HUNTERS. THEIR PREY
ARE TERRIFIED.
>> Reporter:
CAN YOU TELL ME
>> Reporter: CAN YOU TELL ME
WHAT THE VIGILANTES DID TO YOU?
>> Reporter: THESE THREE MEN
ARE GAY AND MUSLIM AND LIVE IN
NORTHERN NIGERIA UNDER ISLAMIC
NORTHERN NIGERIA
UNDER ISLAMIC LAW.
LAW. IT'S TOO RISKY
TO SHOW THEIR
IT'S TOO RISKY TO
SHOW THEIR FACES.
>> Reporter: BECAUSE WHAT
WOULD HAPPEN IF YOU DISPLAYED
WOULD HAPPEN IF YOU
DISPLAYED YOUR SWULLITY?
YOUR SWULLITY? WHAT
HAPPENED WHEN YOUR FAMILY
WHAT HAPPENED WHEN YOUR FAMILY
FOUND OUT YOU WERE GAY?
FOUND OUT YOU WERE GAY? >>
Reporter: QUIT BEING GAY?
>> Reporter: QUIT BEING GAY? >>
Reporter: DOES YOUR FAMILY Ak
>> Reporter: YOU WERE
FORCED TO GET MARRIED.
TO GET MARRIED.
WHAT'S THAT LIKE?
>> Reporter: NEWLY ELECTED
NIGERIAN PRESIDENT HAS PROMISED
CHANGE, BUT SO FAR, THAT DOESN'T
CHANGE, BUT SO FAR, THAT
DOESN'T EXTEND TO GAY MEN.
EXTEND TO GAY MEN. ON
TWITTER, A SPOKESMAN SAID
ON TWITTER, A SPOKESMAN SAID
A MEETING IN WASHINGTON HE WAS
A MEETING IN WASHINGTON
HE WAS POINT BLANK.
POINT BLANK. SODOMY
IS AGAINST THE LAW IN
SODOMY IS AGAINST THE LAW IN
NIGERIA AND ABHORRENT TO OUR
NIGERIA AND ABHORRENT
TO OUR CULTURE.
CULTURE. IN A SECOND
TWEET THE SPOKESMAN
IN A SECOND TWEET THE SPOKESMAN
ADDED, ," THE ISSUE WAS NOT
ADDED, ," THE ISSUE
WAS NOT PUSHED."
PUSHED." U.S. OFFICIALS
TELL PBS NEWSHOUR
U.S. OFFICIALS TELL PBS NEWSHOUR
THEY DON'T PUSH THE ISSUE
BECAUSE THEY FEAR PUBLIC
CRITICISM WOULD BACKFIRE.
BUT GAY NIGERIANS SAY THAT
POLICY HELPS INCREASE PUBLIC
HATE AND PRIVATE PAIN.
HATE AND PRIVATE PAIN. >>
WHEN SOMEBODY TELLS YOU, YOU
>> WHEN SOMEBODY TELLS YOU,
YOU CANNOT AMOUNT TO ANYTHING
CANNOT AMOUNT TO ANYTHING
BECAUSE OF YOUR SEXUALITY.
WHEN A PASSER TELLS YOU YOU'RE
GOING TO GO TO HELLFIRE BECAUSE
YOU'RE HOMOSEXUAL, A LOT OF
PEOPLE'S SPIRITS GET BROKEN.
SOMETIMES I GET CALLS, I GET
TEXT MESSAGES, I GET E-MAILS
THREATENING MY LIFE.
THREATENING MY LIFE. THAT'S--
IF YOU DON'T STOP WHAT
THAT'S-- IF YOU DON'T STOP WHAT
YOU'RE DOING AS AN ACTIVIST, AS
A GAY ACTIVIST, THEN, WE'LL KILL
A GAY ACTIVIST, THEN,
WE'LL KILL YOU.
YOU. SOMETIMES I
GET SCARED BUT I
SOMETIMES I GET SCARED
BUT I TELL MYSELF, NO.
TELL MYSELF, NO. IF I
DON'T FIGHT, WHO WILL?
IF I DON'T FIGHT, WHO WILL?
>> Reporter: THAT COURAGE
>> Reporter: THAT COURAGE COMES
FROM THE BROTHERHOOD THAT
COMES FROM THE BROTHERHOOD THAT
THEIR RELIGIONS AND THEIR STATE
THEIR RELIGIONS AND THEIR
STATE TRY TO DENY THEM.
TRY TO DENY THEM. >> ON
A DAY LIKE TODAY, WHEN
>> ON A DAY LIKE TODAY, WHEN
YOU'RE WITH THIS GROUP, HOW DO
YOU'RE WITH THIS GROUP,
HOW DO YOU FEEL?
>> Reporter: WHERE DO YOU
GET YOUR COURAGE FROM?
>> Reporter:
NICK SHIFRIN, PBS
>> Reporter: NICK SHIFRIN, PBS
NEWSHOUR, IN NORTHERN NIGERIA.
>> Woodruff: TOMORROW NIGHT,
NICK SCHIFRIN WILL BE HERE IN
STUDIO TO WRAP UP HIS NIGERIA
REPORTING, AND HE WILL BE JOINED
REPORTING, AND HE WILL BE
JOINED BY THE NIGERIAN WRITER
BY THE NIGERIAN WRITER
CHIMAMANDA NGOZI ADICHIE.